Nested SignerSets (#55)
mobilecoinfoundation/mcips: text/0055-nested-multi-sigs.md

> - Feature Name: nested_multi_sig

Reviewer: :wrench: Looking at some other MCIPs the feature name is human text (versus snakecase code, not a good term)
```suggestion
- Feature Name: Nested Minting Multi-Signatures
```
Not sold on my wording but thought "Minting" should be in there for the block version table

- Start Date: 2022-11-02
- MCIP PR: [mobilecoinfoundation/mcips#0053](https://github.com/mobilecoinfoundation/mcips/pull/0053)
- Tracking Issue: https://github.com/mobilecoinfoundation/mobilecoin/issues/2693

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

We currently require multi-signatures for authorizing `MintConfigTx` and `MintTx` transactions. At the moment, each multi-signature is defined as requiring M-of-N signatures. The set of authorized signers (`SignerSet`) specifies the potential signers coupled with the threshold (the `M` in `M-of-N`). Each signer is identified by their Ed25519 pulic key.

> We would like to evolve this such that each member of a signer set can either be an individual Ed25519 public key, or another signer set.

Author: Hm, I'm not sure. I think of `multi-signature` as the actual set of signatures, and not the thing that specifies who needs to sign (and how many signatures are needed).

> We would like to evolve this such that each member of a signer set can either be an individual Ed25519 public key, or another signer set.

Reviewer: I agree I did another review to try and clarify those

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

Allowing each signer in a multi-sig `SignerSet` to either be an individual key or it's own M-of-N set allows us to better represent the real-world signature hierarchy that we would like to use for minting and minting configurations.

For example, when specifying the required signers for some arbitrary token, we might say that we want two entities to authorize a minting transaction:
1. The MobileCoin foundation
2. A liquidity provider that holds the backing asset for the token being issued

Right now, there is no good way to specify this, unless each organization simply has a single key. That is suboptimal, since in reality the organization might prefer to have a few keys and require it's own M-of-N such that there is no single person in the organization that can authorize a mint. That is a more secure scheme.

Following the change in this PR, it will become possible to specify such signer sets, where each signer can be either an individual key, or another signer set.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

> Multi-signatures, and signer set definitions are provided by the `mc-crypto-multisig` crate. This crate exposes an object called `SignerSet`, which is an array of public keys and a threshold that specifies the minimum number of signatures that is required for a multi-signature to be considered valid.

Author: There are in fact two separate objects - the `SignerSet` which specifies who can sign and how many signatures are needed, and `MultiSig`, which is just an array of signatures that can be verified against a `SignerSet`.

> Multi-signatures, and signer set definitions are provided by the `mc-crypto-multisig` crate. This crate exposes an object called `SignerSet`, which is an array of public keys and a threshold that specifies the minimum number of signatures that is required for a multi-signature to be considered valid.

Author: Do you think there's anything actionable here?

> Multi-signatures, and signer set definitions are provided by the `mc-crypto-multisig` crate. This crate exposes an object called `SignerSet`, which is an array of public keys and a threshold that specifies the minimum number of signatures that is required for a multi-signature to be considered valid.

Reviewer: oh sorry, I thought I resolved all these
I think this is changed after my second review

We will make minor changes to the `tokens.json` file format and the `mc-consensus-mint-client` tool to allow specifying nested signer sets.

Since we are only adding a field, this change is backwards compatible when it comes to the protobuf representation of `SignerSet`s. . However, `SignerSet`s make their way into blocks (they are included in `MintConfig`s and `ValidatedMintConfigTx`s and those go into `BlockContents`. This means we will need to gate this feature on a block version change, so that clients have time to upgrade before it gets enabled and used. This is similar to what we have done in previous changes that affect data going into the ledger.

# Reference-level explanation
[reference-level-explanation]: #reference-level-explanation

We propose to add a third field to the struct, `multi_signers`, that allows including other `SignerSet`s. Following the change, the struct will look like this:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```rust
```

    #[prost(message, repeated, tag = "1")]
    #[digestible(name = "signers")]
    individual_signers: Vec<P>,

    /// List of potential sets of signers. This allows us to declare a nested
    /// multi-signature scheme. Ideally the two arrays in this struct would be
    /// combined into a single one that holds an enum of (IndividualSigner,
    /// MultiSignerSet), but since this feature was added after we went live
    /// and instances of SignerSet made their way into the ledger, it is not
    /// possible to change the array type without breaking backwards
    /// compatibility. This is also the reason the tag numbers in the struct
    /// are not sequential.
    #[prost(message, repeated, tag = "3")]
    multi_signers: Vec<SignerSet<P>>,

    /// Minimum number of signers required. The potential signers are the union
    /// of `individual_signers` and `multi_signers`.
    /// This implies that the upper limit (total number of possible signers) is
    /// `individual_signers.len() + multi_signers.len()`.
    #[prost(uint32, tag = "2")]
    threshold: u32,
}
```

The matching proto definitions inside `external.proto` will also need to be changed to include this new field.

> Since we are gating the support for the nested signer sets on a block version bump, there are places where we will need to ensure a `SignerSet` does not have any `multi_signers`, unless we are running a block version that supports it:

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 
```suggestion
Since we are gating the support for the nested multi-signatures on a block version bump, there are places where we will need to ensure a `SignerSet` does not have any `multi_signers`, unless we are running a block version that supports it:
```

Author: This is again the issue of signer-sets vs multi-signatures. The `MultiSig` struct didn't actually change, it's just the `SignerSet` that changed. So I am not sure whats better here.

Reviewer: I agree, did a second review to try and clarify

> - Feature Name: Nested Minting Multi-Signatures

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: With my better understanding and now reading my suggestion it seems like this is "minting" "multiple signatures"
```suggestion
- Feature Name: Nested Signer Sets for Minting
```

- Start Date: 2022-11-02
- MCIP PR: [mobilecoinfoundation/mcips#0053](https://github.com/mobilecoinfoundation/mcips/pull/0053)
- Tracking Issue: https://github.com/mobilecoinfoundation/mobilecoin/issues/2693

# Summary
[summary]: #summary

> We currently require multi-signatures for authorizing `MintConfigTx` and `MintTx` transactions. At the moment, each multi-signature is defined as requiring M-of-N signatures. Each signer is identified by their Ed25519 public key.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: 
Second try at suggestion for this intro.
```suggestion
We currently require multiple signatures from a signer set for authorizing `MintConfigTx` and `MintTx` transactions. At the moment, each signer set is defined as requiring M-of-N signatures from a list of potential signers. Each signer is identified by their Ed25519 public key.
```

We would like to evolve this such that each member of a signer set can either be an individual Ed25519 public key, or another signer set.

# Motivation
[motivation]: #motivation

> Allowing each signer in a multi-signature to either be an individual key or it's own multi-signature allows us to better represent the real world signature hierarchy that we would like to use for minting and minting configurations.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face:
Sorry more or less revert after my clarification on terminology
```suggestion
Allowing each member in a signer set to either be an individual key or it's own signer set allows us to better represent the real world signature hierarchy that we would like to use for minting and minting configurations.
```

For example, when specifying the required signers for some arbitrary token, we might say that we want two entities to authorize a minting transaction:
1. The MobileCoin foundation
2. A liquidity provider that holds the backing asset for the token being issued

Right now, there is no good way to specify this, unless each organization simply has a single key. That is suboptimal, since in reality the organization might prefer to have a few keys and require it's own M-of-N such that there is no single person in the organization that can authorize a mint. That is a more secure scheme.

> Following the proposal in this MCIP, it will become possible to specify such multi-signatures, where each signer can be either an individual key, or another multi-signature.

Reviewer: :upside_down_face: again reverting my original suggestion
```suggestion
Following the proposal in this MCIP, it will become possible to specify such signer sets, where each signer can be either an individual key, or another signer set.
```

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

> Multi-signatures, and signer set definitions are provided by the `mc-crypto-multisig` crate. This crate exposes an object called `SignerSet`, which is an array of public keys and a threshold that specifies the minimum number of signatures that is required for a multi-signature to be considered valid.

Reviewer: especially with the `multi_signers` type, I think maybe `multi-signatures` should be avoided. I can't recall if the signatures are just a vec, seems like they were a hashmap, but I'm not sure this MCIP needs to worry about the details of how the signatures themselves are stored/passed around.
```suggestion
The signer set definition is provided by the `mc-crypto-multisig` crate. This crate exposes an object called `SignerSet`, which is an array of public keys and a threshold that specifies the minimum number of signatures that is required to be considered valid.
```
